docs: Bridge package docs: flame_fire_atlas (#2077)
flame-engine/flame: doc/flame_fire_atlas/fire_atlas.md

# Flame fire atlas

Flame fire atlas is a texture atlas lib for Flame. By using `flame_fire_atlas` one can access images
and animations stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.

## FireAtlas

FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. Atlases can be created using the
[Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org).

### Creating Atlas

> To create `Atlas` open [Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a texture atlas open [Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org).
```

> A texture atlas is an image that contains data from several smaller images that have been packed

Author: can you suggest me some examples if possible,
i did quite good search but i couldn't find that can explain in simple/plain words

> Select new atlas and give atlas name, tile width, tile height and an Image and Press okay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select new atlas and give the atlas a name, tile width, tile height and an image and press okay.
```

> it will take you to atlas editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will take you to the atlas editor.
```

> To create new `Sprite` in atlas, select portion and click plus button on top left and give
> selection name(which refer given sprite) and select type `Sprite` and press `Create Sprite`. you can
> see preview on right panel of editor.
> 
> To create new `SpriteAnimation` in atlas, select portion and click plus button on top left and give
> selection name(which refer given sprite) and select type `Animation` and provide `frame count`
> and `steps times(in millisecond)` and select checkbox to loop the animation then
> press `Create Animation`. you can see preview of animation on right panel of editor.
> 
> once done with editing you can download atlas file from top left `download` icon button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new `Sprite` in the atlas, select a portion and click the plus button on top left and give
the selection a name and then select type `Sprite` and press `Create Sprite`. You can now
see a preview in the right panel of editor.

To create a new `SpriteAnimation` in the atlas, select a portion and click the plus button on top left and give
the selection a name and then select type `Animation` and provide `frame count`
and `steps times (in milliseconds)` and select the checkbox to loop the animation, and then
press `Create Animation`. You can now see a preview of the animation in the right panel of the editor.

Once you are done with editing you can download the fire atlas file from top left with the `download` icon button.
```

# Flame fire atlas

> Flame fire atlas is a texture atlas lib for Flame. Using `Flame fire atlas` one can access images
> and animations stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flame fire atlas is a texture atlas lib for Flame. By using `flame_fire_atlas` one can access images
and animations stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.
```

> ## FireAtlas

Reviewer: There should be some instructions for how to use FireAtlas here

Author: added

> FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. Atlases can be created using
> the [Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org/#/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. Atlases can be created using the
[Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org).
```

## Texture atlas

A [Texture atlas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_atlas) is an image that contains data from
several smaller images that have been packed together to reduce overall dimensions. With it, you
reduce the number of images loaded and can speed up the loading time of the game.

## Usage

> To use it in your game you just need to add `flame_fire_atlas` to your pubspec.yaml, as can be
> seen in the [Flame Fire Atlas example](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame_fire_atlas/example)
> and in the pub.dev [installation instructions](https://pub.dev/packages/flame_fire_atlas).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the bridge library in your game you just need to add `flame_fire_atlas` to your pubspec.yaml,
as can be seen in the [Flame Fire Atlas example](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame_fire_atlas/example)
and in the pub.dev [installation instructions](https://pub.dev/packages/flame_fire_atlas).
```

# FireAtlas

> FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases.

Reviewer: It needs more information about what texture atlases are and how they are used, like how you map string keys to assets.

Author: updated

> FireAtlas is a mapping file that can hold several Sprites and SpriteAnimations.

Reviewer: This is a description of the file that FireAtlas produces, not a description of what FireAtlas is.
You can try it out here if you haven't:
https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org/

Author: it is object that represents the mapping file, right ?

Reviewer: No, FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases, the file is just the output from the tool. So it's the tool that should be described here.

To
install [flame_fire_atlas](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame_fire_atlas)
run this command:

```bash
flutter pub add flame_fire_atlas
```

this will add following line in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flame_fire_atlas: VERSION
```

The latest version can be found on [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/flame_fire_atlas/install).

> After installing the `flame_fire_atlas` package, you can add mapping files in the assets section of
> your
> `pubspec.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the `flame_fire_atlas` package, you can add FiraAtlas (`.fa`) files in the assets section
of your `pubspec.yaml`.
```

# Flame fire atlas

Flame fire atlas is a texture atlas lib for Flame. Using `Flame fire atlas` one can access images
and animations stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.

## FireAtlas

FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. Atlases can be created using
the [Fire Atlas Editor](https://fire-atlas.flame-engine.org/#/).

## Texture atlas

A [Texture atlas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_atlas) is an image that contains data from

> several smaller images that have been packed together to reduce overall dimensions.With it, you
> reduce the number of images loaded and speedup the game loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
several smaller images that have been packed together to reduce overall dimensions. With it, you
reduce the number of images loaded and can speed up the loading time of the game.
```

### Example

> ![fighter atlas](./images/fighter.png)

Author: removed as was not sure about license

> # FireAtlas

Reviewer 2: The `FireAtlas` and `flame_fire_atlas` are two different packages, and I think we should make a more clear distinction between them.

Generally, when writing this kind of Overview doc, it's good to imagine yourself in the shoes of a potential reader. The reader here probably knows nothing or very little about either `flame_fire_atlas` or `FireAtlas`, and the job of this document is to explain what those packages are, what do they do, and whether they would be useful to the reader.

For example, the "installation" section shouldn't be up front: it's like trying to convince someone to buy a product without them seeing it first.

Reviewer: Agree.
On another note I think that we should also consolidate the docs for the bridge package with the docs for the package that the bridge leads to, because currently they are in different sections of the docs. That shouldn't be solved by this PR though.

Author: should i give title FlameFireAtlas ?

i saw on other bridging docs that they were not having flame prefix on heading so i just put it without prefix

Reviewer 2: I believe it's perfectly fine to name the page as the package: `flame_fire_atlas`. We do that in the currently published docs: https://docs.flame-engine.org/1.4.0/flame_forge2d/flame_forge2d.html

FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. With FireAtlas one can access images and
animations stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.

## Texture atlas

A texture atlas is an image
that contains data from several smaller images that have been packed together to reduce overall

> dimensions.

Reviewer: Needs formatting

## Usage

To
install [flame_fire_atlas](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame_fire_atlas)
run this command:

```bash
flutter pub add flame_fire_atlas
```

this will add following line in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flame_fire_atlas: VERSION
```

The latest version can be found on [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/flame_fire_atlas/install).

After installing the `flame_fire_atlas` package, you can add FiraAtlas (`.fa`) files in the assets
section of your `pubspec.yaml`.

For the examples below, your `pubspec.yaml` file needs to contain something like this:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - assets/caveace.fa
```

Then you have the following methods at your disposal:

```dart
import 'package:flame_fire_atlas/flame_fire_atlas.dart';

// Load your exported fire atlas file.
loadFireAtlas('caveace.fa')

// Get a Sprite with the given key.
FireAtlas.getSprite('bomb_ptero')

// Get a SpriteAnimation with the given key.
FireAtlas.getAnimation('bla')
```

To use FireAtlas in your game, load the fire atlas file in an `onLoad` method, either in your game

> or a component. Then you can use [getSprite] and [getAnimation] to retrieve the mapped assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or a component. Then you can use `getSprite` and `getAnimation` to retrieve the mapped assets.
```

# FireAtlas

> FireAtlas is a tool for handling `texture atlases`. Using FireAtlas we can access images using keys
> from texture atlas like accessing key-value pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FireAtlas is a tool for handling texture atlases. With FireAtlas one can access images and animations
stored in a `.fa` texture atlas by referring to them by their named keys.
```
"texture atlases" should not be in a code block.
The second sentence was not grammatically correct (check your sentences with grammarly or something similar if you are not certain they are correct).

## Texture atlas

> A texture atlas(also called a spritesheet or an image sprite in 2d game development) is an image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A texture atlas is an image
```
image sprite is not the same thing as a texture atlas and I don't think you have to mention spritesheets here since it can be a subset what one means when saying texture atlas.

that contains data from several smaller images that have been packed together to reduce overall

> dimensions. Texture atlasing enables batching for several static objects that share this texture

Reviewer: What do you mean by static objects here?

> atlas and the same material. Batching reduces the number of draw calls. Fewer draw calls results in

Reviewer: What do you mean with material here?

Reviewer: Also batching doesn't have anything to do with this, so you can leave it out completely.

Author: removed that line.

better performance when the game is CPU-bound.

## Usage

To
install [flame_fire_atlas](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame_fire_atlas)
run this command:

```bash
flutter pub add flame_fire_atlas
```

this will add following line in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flame_fire_atlas: VERSION
```

The latest version can be found on [pub.dev](https://pub.dev/packages/flame_fire_atlas/install).

After installing the `flame_fire_atlas` package, you can add FiraAtlas (`.fa`) files in the assets
section of your `pubspec.yaml`.

For the examples below, your `pubspec.yaml` file needs to contain something like this:

```yaml
flutter:
  assets:
    - assets/caveace.fa
```

Then you have the following methods at your disposal:

```dart
import 'package:flame_fire_atlas/flame_fire_atlas.dart';

> // To load your Mapping file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Load your exported fire atlas file.
```

loadFireAtlas('caveace.fa')

> // To get Sprite with the given selectionId.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get a Sprite with the given key.
```

FireAtlas.getSprite('bomb_ptero')

> // To get SpriteAnimation with the given selectionId.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get a SpriteAnimation with the given key.
```

FireAtlas.getAnimation('bla')
```

> To use FireAtlas in game load mapping file in Game onLoad Method And Use [getSprite]
> and [getAnimation] to retrieve mapped assets.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use FireAtlas in your game, load the fire atlas file in an `onLoad` method, either in your game or a component.
Then you can use [getSprite] and [getAnimation] to retrieve the mapped assets.

```

```dart
class ExampleGame extends FlameGame {

  late FireAtlas _atlas;

  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    _atlas = await loadFireAtlas('caveace.fa');

    add(
      SpriteAnimationComponent(
        size: Vector2(150, 100),
        animation: _atlas.getAnimation('shooting_ptero'),
      )

>         ..y = 50,

Reviewer: Skip this and set a position instead, just like with size.

    );

    add(
      SpriteComponent(
        size: Vector2(50, 50),
        sprite: _atlas.getSprite('bullet'),
      )

>         ..y = 200,

Reviewer: Skip this and set a position instead, just like with size.

    );
  }

}
```

## Full Example

> You can check a working example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check an example
```
